Add a page describing the goals of Dune (#3458)
ocaml/dune: doc/goals.rst

************

> Goal of dune

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Goal of Dune
```

************

The main goal of the Dune project is to provide the best possible
build tool for the whole of the OCaml community, from individual

> developpers who work on open source projects during their free time

Reviewer 2: `developers`.

> developpers who work on open source projects during their free time

Reviewer 3: developers

Author: fixed

all the way to larger companies such as Jane Street. And to the extent
that is reasonably possible, help provide the same feature for friend
communities such as Coq and possibly Reason/Bucklescript in the
future.

We haven't reached this goal yet and Dune still lacks in some areas in
order to be such a tool, but we are slowly working towards that goal.
On a practical level, there are a few boxes to check. There are in
fact a ton details to sort out, but at a high-level a tool that works
for everyone in the OCaml community should at least:

> 1. have excelent backward compatibility properties

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. have excellent backward compatibility properties
```

2. have a robust and scalable core
3. remain a no-brainer dependency
4. have very good support for the OCaml language

> 5. be extensible

Reviewer 5: I just noticed that none of these items really speak to usability or accessibility. But this seems like an important goal for "a high-level a tool that works for everyone in the OCaml community".

Author: Indeed, you are right that this is an important point. I'll add something about it.

At this point, we have done a good job at 1, 3 and 4, we are working
towards 2 and are doing the preparatory work for 5. Once all these
boxes have been checked, we will consider that the Dune project will
be feature complete.

In the rest of this page, we develop these points and give some
insights into our current and future focuses.

> Have excelent backward compatibility properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Have excellent backward compatibility properties
```

===============================================

In an open-source community, there will always be groups of people
with enough resources to continously bring their projects up to date
as well as people who work on their free time and cannot provide the
same level of continuous support and updates.

From the point of view of Dune, we have to assume that a released
project with `dune` files is a precious piece that will potentially
never change. So changing Dune in a way that it could no longer
understand a released project is by default a no-no.

Of cource, we can't give a 100% guarantee that Dune will always behave

> exactly the same. That would be irrealistic and would prevent the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
exactly the same. That would be unrealistic and would prevent the
```

project from moving forward.  In order for us to provide good backward
compatibility properties while still keeping the project fresh and
dynamic, we have to make sure to properly delimit, document and

> version the set of behaviors that users should relly on. And for this

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
version the set of behaviors on which users should rely. And for this
```

Author: Thanks for the typo fixes!

not turn ``dune`` into a monster because no one wants to force their
users to install a monster to build their project. This brings us to
the next point of Dune being a no-brainer dependency.

Remain a no-brainer dependency
==============================

``dune`` is a hard dependency of any Dune project. Anyone using Dune
for developing their project will have to ask their user to install
Dune. For this reason, it is very important to keep Dune as lean as
possible.

This is why we have to be careful when we start relying on an external
piece of software, or when we introduce new concepts. We must make
sure to not introduce duplication or useless stuff. The overall
projects has to remain lean.

It is also important to keep ``dune`` as easy to install as
possible. Currently, the only requirement to build ``dune`` is a
working OCaml compiler. Nothing else is required, not even a shell and
we should keep it this way.

Have very good support for the OCaml language
=============================================

There are many many build systems out there. What makes Dune different
is that it targets the OCaml community primarily. So Dune must come

> with excelent support for the OCaml language and OCaml projects in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with excellent support for the OCaml language and OCaml projects in
```

general.

If it didn't, then Dune would just be yet another build system.

Perhaps in the future some of the general build system will take over
and Dune might just become a plugin in this system, or even disappear
into the language if the compiler gains a lot of higher level
features. But for now, Dune is a standalone build system that is
primarily serving the needs of the OCaml community, and to the extent
that is reasonably possible the needs of friend communities.

Be extensible
=============

No matter how good the support for the OCaml language is, it will
never be enough to cover every single project need. For this reason,

> Dune needs to provide some form of openness for projects that needs

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Dune needs to provide some form of openness for projects that need
```

> something that don't completely fit in the model provided by Dune.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
something that doesn't completely fit in the model provided by Dune.
```

> something that don't completely fit in the model provided by Dune.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
something that doesn't completely fit in the model provided by Dune.
```

> In the long run, extensibility tends to get in the way of inovation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the long run, extensibility tends to get in the way of innovation
```

promises.

In particular, while making Dune scalable we must also make sure to
not turn Dune into a monster because no one wants to force their users
to install a monster to build their project. This brings us to the
next point of Dune being a no-brainer dependency.

Remain a no-brainer dependency
==============================

Dune is a hard dependency of any Dune project. Anyone using Dune
to develop their project will have to ask their user to install
Dune. For this reason, it is very important to keep Dune as lean as
possible.

This is why we have to be careful when we start relying on an external
piece of software, or when we introduce new concepts. We must make
sure to not introduce duplication or useless stuff. The overall
projects has to remain lean.

It is also important to keep Dune as easy to install as
possible. Currently, the only requirement to build Dune is a
working OCaml compiler. Nothing else is required, not even a shell and
we should keep it this way.

Remain accessible
=================

Since Dune aims to be the best possible tool for the whole OCaml
community, it is important for Dune to remain accessible. Getting

> started and leaning Dune should be straightforward.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
started and learning Dune should be straightforward.
```

For that purpose, when designing the language, the command line

> interface or the documentation, we must always put ourselves from the
> point of view of a user who is discovering Dune and its features.

Reviewer 5: For a slightly more idiomatic phrasing, we might put something like

```suggestion
interface or the documentation, we must take on the perspective 
of a user who is just discovering Dune and its features.
```

Author: Thanks, you version is more succinct, I like it better :)
